This Guitar Hero-inspired game was designed as a final project for ECE 287: Digital Systems Design at Miami University. The project aims to create a reaction-based game where players press corresponding keys as blocks fall on the screen, implemented on an FPGA platform.

## Overview
Players interact with falling blocks by pressing keys corresponding to three columns. The game features:

Adjustable falling speed using switches 1 and 2

Scoring based on timing accuracy within a designated zone

Point deduction for premature key presses

Audio feedback for each column/note

Score display on seven-segment displays

## Project Design
The project consists of several key modules:

- guitar_hero.v: Top-level module 

- guitar_hero_display.v: Controls note falling speed based on switches 1 and 2. Creates display of background grid and different colored notes. Finally the players score is updated based on what respective zone the note is in.

- note_generator.v:  Creates the note blocks controlling the size.

- note_manager.v: Updates notes y position to make them fall and ensures at most 30 notes fall per game.

- lfsr.v: Generates random note patterns to ensure variability in gameplay.

- audio_controller.v: Produces audio output.

- debounce.v: Handles switch input debouncing.

- four_decimal_vals.v: Calculates score digits.

- seven_segment.v and seven_segment_negative.v: Display score on seven-segment displays.

- vga_driver.v: Manages VGA output.

## Video of Gameplay

https://youtube.com/shorts/5ARuR3l5q8A?feature=share

## Playing the game

- Ensure all switches are off initially.

- Adjust the speed of the notes to your liking using Switches 2 and 1.
	- No switches is slowest.
	- SW[1] is the next slowest.
	- SW[1] and SW[2] together is the medium speed.
	- SW[2] is the fastest.

- When you are ready to play, turn SW[9] on.

- KEY[2], KEY[1], and KEY[0] correspond to their respective columns left to right. Press the keys down as the notes fall within the window.
Be careful not to press the keys too early as you can lose points.

- KEY[3] will reset the system (small note, turn SW[9] off before resetting as the vga delay can result a note already falling down).

- Each column/note has their own unique sound emitting through the audio ports (headphones with correct inputs are required).
## Citations

Formatting for `README.md` based off of https://github.com/chrisblutz/digital-design-project/tree/master

The `vga_driver.v` module was written by Huan Dang in https://github.com/HuanProjects/ECE287_checker/tree/main

The module `audio_controller.v` was inspired by a similar audio controller generated by https://www.perplexity.ai/

## Conclusions

This project successfully implemented all intended features. The additional feature of the players score being deducted if pressing the keys outside of the scoring zone was needed once we realized that the players could just continuously hold the keys and score the maximum amount of points.



## Design Results

The completed design takes 754 ALM's, 1435 ALUT's, and 232 logic registers when optimized in Quartus.


